1) Generation of SBML from KEGG metabolism

Task participants: Neil, Andreas, Clemens

December status: achieved

Complementation by MetaCyc to be done. Will be combined with KEGG information to generate genome-wide models.

2) Production of the qual specification

Task participants: Claudine, Martijn

December status: content finalised. Conversion to final format needed. 

3) Implementation of qual in JSBML

Task participants: NicoR, Andreas

January status: Done.

4) (Implementation of SBGN AF in libSBGN) LibSBGN Milestone 2

Task participant: Martijn, Michael

December status: finished

5) Implementation of annotations in libSBGN

Task participant: Martijn

January status: Done in libSBGN

6) Generation of SBML from KEGG signalling => Depends on 2) and maybe 3)

Task Participants: Finja, Florian

January status: Almost ready (end of January).

Complement from Biocarta ongoing.

7) Generation of kinetics models for metabolism  => Depends on 1)

Task participants: Neil, Andreas

Notes: two types of models, stoichiometric from Neil and modular rate laws from Andreas.

January status: 
* Modular rate laws can be generated anytime.
* Stoichiometric models to be generated in L2 for the time being.  

8) Generation of logical models for signalling => Depends on 4)

Task participants: Julio, Martijn

January status: Work has started. There is a plan and a work-flow. Waiting for the final files converted from KEGG and Biocarta. 

9) Generation of enriched SBGN PD maps for metabolism => Depends on 7)

Task participants: Martijn, Andreas, Michael

10) Generation of enriched SBGN AF maps for signalling => Depends on 8)

Task participants: Martijn, Andreas, Michael

January status: Good progress.

11) Develop a dedicated branch in BioModels Database

Task leader: Camille

January status: 

12) Submit a paper to a "good" journal

Task participants: All